---
title: "Custom color scheme, design, and logo of readthedocs page"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Tutorials
tags:
  - readthedocs
  - software
  - css
---

This very short tutorial documents how I gave the [pylanetary project's readthedocs page](https://pylanetary.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) a custom logo and layout. The logo was designed by Jacob Waliszewski at [jwdesignco](https://www.jwdesignco.com/), so massive shout-out to him. It looks fantastic!

Pylanetary uses a <code>pyproject.toml</code> file to handle its packaging in a way that's compatible with Python 3.12, and relies on [sphinx-pyproject](https://sphinx-pyproject.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) so that most of the options that would normally go in sphinx's <code>conf.py</code> go inside <code>pyproject.toml</code> under <code>[tool.sphinx-pyproject]</code>. Your mileage may vary if you are using some other setup.

<b> Add a logo in the top-left corner </b>

This was dead simple, since sphinx has an explicit option for this. Simply:
<ul>
  <li> Put a .png of the logo into the <code>docs/</code> folder, NOT <code>docs/_static</code>. The file will be copied to static during the build. </li>
  <li> Ensure the lines <code>html_static_path = ['_static']</code> and <code>html_logo = "logo.png"</code> are both in <code>pyproject.toml</code> under <code>[tool.sphinx-pyproject]</code> </li>
  <li> To test, just <code>make clean html</code> from within the docs folder as usual. </li>
</ul>

<b> Change the layout </b>

I didn't like any of the native sphinx site designs - either they look super outdated, or too many other packages already use it. Thankfully, the open-source community has created tons of options, which are compiled [here](https://sphinx-themes.org/#themes). I chose [Furo](https://github.com/pradyunsg/furo). It was super easy to implement, I simply ran <code>pip install furo</code>, added <code>furo</code> to my <code>docs/requirements.txt</code> file, and then set <code>html_theme = "furo"</code>. 

<b> Change the color scheme </b>

This is done by setting the <code>html_theme_options</code> for sphinx. The allowed options appear to depend a bit on the choice of theme. For Furo, this was the syntax:
<code>html_theme_options = {"light_css_variables" = {"color-brand-primary" = "#002f87"}, "dark_css_variables" = {"color-brand-primary" = "#00a7e1"}}</code>
I am ashamed to admit how long it took me to figure out the syntax for this dictionary in <code>pyproject.toml</code>. it seemed to need all of it on one line. Thanks again to Jacob for sending me the hex colors so we could have a consistent color scheme.

<b> Sphinx Copy Button </b>

I browsed the Recommendations page given in the Furo docs, and ended up adding just one: the [code copier button](https://github.com/executablebooks/sphinx-copybutton). This integrated easily into both in-line code blocks in the .rst files and the tutorials written in Jupyter notebook and generated by nbsphinx. It was also super easy to implement, I simply ran <code>pip install sphinx-copybutton</code>, added <code>"sphinx_copybutton"</code> to the list of sphinx extensions, and added it to my <code>docs/requirements.txt</code> file. 

<b> Testing the build </b>

Testing the docs build as part of the integration tests that run on GitHub upon submitting a PR is as simple as clicking an option box in the project's readthedocs settings. I learned this as part of this project. When you do so, the full build will be available from the project's readthedocs build page, e.g., [https://readthedocs.org/projects/pylanetary/builds/](https://readthedocs.org/projects/pylanetary/builds/).